decisions/0001-adopt-skill-md-standard.md, before:

# ADR-0001: Adopt Canonical SKILL.md Directory Structure

**Date**: 2026-02-20
**Status**: Accepted

## Context

The Skills project started as a flat directory of informal markdown files (`research-skill.md`, `strategy-author-skill.md`, etc.). These files had inconsistent naming, inconsistent or absent YAML frontmatter, and were not structured in a way that Claude Code's skill discovery mechanism could use them.

Claude Code requires skills to be in the format `<skill-name>/SKILL.md` (under `~/.claude/skills/`, `.claude/skills/`, or a plugin path). The metadata Claude uses for auto-invocation must be in the YAML frontmatter `description` field. Files that don't follow this structure cannot be discovered or invoked as skills.

Anthropic published the Agent Skills open standard in December 2025, and it has been adopted by multiple AI coding tools. The standard specifies:

- Each skill lives in its own named directory
- The entrypoint file is always `SKILL.md`
- YAML frontmatter contains `name` and `description` (required) plus optional fields
- The three-level discovery system (metadata → body → resources) keeps token use efficient

## Decision

Adopt the canonical Claude Code Agent Skills structure for all skills in this repository:

```
skills/<skill-name>/SKILL.md
```

Convert all existing flat `.md` files to this structure. Add proper `name` and `description` YAML frontmatter to each skill. Remove the original flat files after conversion.

## Consequences

**Positive**:
- Skills are directly installable to `~/.claude/skills/` and invocable via slash command
- Claude auto-invokes skills based on the `description` field without explicit user invocation
- Structure is compatible with the Claude Code plugin marketplace for future distribution
- Repository is self-documenting: directory names are skill names

**Negative**:
- Existing symlinks or references to the old flat filenames will break (none existed)
- The `remove-ai-slop.md` file was incomplete; converting it preserves the incompleteness

**Neutral**:
- YAML frontmatter fields beyond `name` and `description` are skill-specific and optional
- The `skills/` subdirectory adds one level of nesting to all skill paths

Commit message:

Make documentation vendor-agnostic; remove Claude Code assumptions
Rewrite all documentation so the skills collection works with any AI
assistant, not just Claude Code. Primary usage is now: copy SKILL.md
content into context. Native tool installation is a secondary section
listing multiple vendors (Claude Code, OpenAI Codex CLI) side by side.

- README: remove slash commands and ~/.claude/ as primary path; add
  generic paste-into-context usage; replace single-vendor install section
  with multi-vendor table
- PRD: remove Claude plugin marketplace reference; reframe users and
  success criteria around vendor-neutral consumption
- CHANGELOG: replace "Claude Code Agent Skills format" with "Agent Skills
  open standard"
- PROGRESS: remove ~/.claude/ install step from next-session tasks;
  note vendor-agnostic docs as completed work
- ADR-0001: reframe context and consequences around the open standard
  and multi-vendor compatibility rather than Claude Code specifics

https://claude.ai/code/session_01KPH9B7f6BQqSYexFf191T2

decisions/0001-adopt-skill-md-standard.md, after:

# ADR-0001: Adopt the Agent Skills Open Standard Directory Structure

**Date**: 2026-02-20
**Status**: Accepted

## Context

The Skills project started as a flat directory of informal markdown files (`research-skill.md`, `strategy-author-skill.md`, etc.). These files had inconsistent naming, inconsistent or absent YAML frontmatter, and no standard structure.

In December 2025, the Agent Skills format was released as an open standard (agentskills.io). Multiple AI coding tools have adopted it, including Claude Code and OpenAI Codex CLI. The standard specifies:

- Each skill lives in its own named directory
- The entrypoint file is always `SKILL.md`
- YAML frontmatter contains `name` and `description` (required) plus optional fields
- The `description` field is used by supporting tools for automatic skill selection

The format is designed to be vendor-neutral: a `SKILL.md` is a plain markdown file that can be pasted into any AI assistant's context, or discovered automatically by tools that implement the standard.

## Decision

Adopt the Agent Skills open standard structure for all skills in this repository:

```
skills/<skill-name>/SKILL.md
```

Convert all existing flat `.md` files to this structure. Add `name` and `description` YAML frontmatter to each skill. Remove the original flat files after conversion.

Document generic usage (paste into context) as the primary consumption method. List native tool installation as a secondary convenience, with examples for multiple tools — not assuming any single vendor.

## Consequences

**Positive**:
- Skills are usable with any AI assistant by copying SKILL.md content into context
- Compatible with all tools that implement the Agent Skills open standard
- Repository is self-documenting: directory names are skill names
- Structure is stable and human-readable independent of any vendor's tooling

**Negative**:
- The `remove-ai-slop.md` file was incomplete; converting it preserves the incompleteness
- Adds one level of nesting (`skills/<name>/`) compared to flat files

**Neutral**:
- YAML frontmatter fields beyond `name` and `description` are skill-specific and optional
- Tools that do not support native SKILL.md discovery still work — paste the content manually
